DANNY 0:30
I did my undergrad at UC Berkeley in computer
science. At the time I was very interested
in computer security. So after graduation,
I worked at Google and Robinhood where I was doing
machine learning fraud detection. Then around the
time that GPT-3 came out, I thought it was a big
turning point for AI, as a lot of people did,
both from an advancement standpoint and also
just as a what are the implications for broader
society, for the labor force, just from a safety
perspective. So I felt compelled to go back to
school and do work in this space. I started
working with Jacob Steinhardt at UC Berkeley
and was really interested in understanding how
models work. We know that models work very well,
we know neural networks are strong but we
don't necessarily know how they work. So this
is a problem that really gripped me because these
things are deployed in high-stakes situations but
we have no idea what the underlying algorithm that
they're implementing is- to make decisions and do
various tasks. So this is one area of research
that I was very interested in. Then recently
we've done work on automated forecasting with
AI. So this is forecasting future geopolitical
events with AI systems. We believe that this has
implications for AI safety and also implications
for the broader public- how they could potentially
use this technology if it were to work. So you
can imagine that if we had a system that could
forecast future events better than humans, we
would be able to understand the results of taking
certain actions and making certain decisions. And
if we can understand those things, we could make
better-informed decisions on what actions to take.
Currently, we have forecasters that are humans
that forecast different events. The really good
ones are called Superforecasters. The thing with
superforecasters is that there's not a lot of them
and they're expensive. So you can have a machine
that could forecast at the level of humans;
this would be very valuable because you could
distribute this technology widely and people
could use this to make more informed decisions.
Also, you can imagine as AI gets really advanced-
using AI to forecast AI itself, meaning using AI
to forecast when AI will be able to do a certain
thing or when it will get to this level of
capability is really important so we can
understand, [What is the world going to look like
in two years?] These were the two things that got
us interested in using AI for forecasting
and that's what I've been up to recently.
CRAIG 3:47
Yeah. So tell
me about the system that you've built and
the paper that you wrote. I guess start
with the prediction markets, which I wasn't
really aware of, and how those function,
also how the super forecasters function. Are
they doing deep research around an event?
DANNY 4:20
Absolutely. I guess the thing I'll start with
is some context which is, the thing we're doing
is referred to as judgemental forecasting versus
time series forecasting. Time series forecasting
typically excels when data is abundant and when
it doesn't change much, so it's under minimal
distributional shift. And here, in this field, you
take tools from time series modeling. So you can
imagine if you want to forecast the weather, you
just collect a lot of data that you have currently
in the environment and use some time series
modeling to make a forecast about the weather.
Judgemental forecasting, on the other hand, is
where people assign probabilities to future events
based off historical data, their intuition, their
firm estimates, and their domain knowledge. It's
very much intuition-based, it's very much just
thinking about; What are the possible outcomes?
What are the factors that I should consider? What
are the probabilities of the different factors?
So we are interested in the field of judgemental
forecasting. Okay, to study this you can take a
look at prediction markets. Prediction markets
are essentially these platforms where people put
probabilities on different events happening. So
anybody can go on to these prediction platforms,
take a look at a question that interests them,
like who's going to win the next US election,
and they can put a probability on each candidate,
and you have many people doing this. Based off
what people think, this will determine what the
platform or prediction market thinks is the true
probability of this event. So if you have like
500 people putting a probability on Trump or
Biden or some other candidate winning and you
aggregate all this information of what all these
different people think; the prediction market puts
a probability on the event. So one natural concern
is, [Well, some humans are probably better at
forecasting than others. So why should the
platform consider everyone's probability?] And the
thing that these platforms do is weigh people's
probabilities based off their past performance.
So if you've been on these platforms for a long
time and you've done very well at predicting the
future, then the platform puts a lot of weight on
your probability because you've done a good job
in the past so they have reason to believe you'll
do a good job in the future. Another interesting
thing I'll say about these prediction markets is
that if you take a look at the aggregate forecast
of forecasters, so you take a look at what
the prediction market says is the probability,
which it is based off of the individual
forecasters; this probability is usually
more accurate than the probability reported by the
expert forecasters. The reason why this happens
is because every individual has their own biases,
they base their forecasts off the information that
they find compelling, and when you average the
probabilities across many different individuals,
you're sort of getting all the different pieces of
information that each individual is considering.
You're also sort of averaging out this bias factor
that each individual has. This is referred to as
like the wisdom of the crowd. And that's why
prediction markets are a very valuable tool and
are very successful. It's because by taking what
everyone thinks and averaging them in some way,
you can get a more accurate forecast than you
would have. So that's basically the field of
judgmental forecasting and this is sort of the
state of prediction markets. I guess I'll also
add that prediction markets have been around
for a bit but there's been a lot more excitement
about them recently. So just a lot more
user participation. This has almost become a
trend or fad, where people go on these prediction
markets and just start submitting probabilities
for different things. People will even propose
their own questions. So there has been a lot of
excitement in this space and a lot of attention
which I think is a good thing for this field.
CRAIG 8:47
Let me just ask before we go on from that.
What's the accuracy? Is there an aggregate
accuracy for the different platforms? I
would imagine that when you break that down
to different domains, they're more accurate
in some domains and others. Then, if they are
70% or above accurate, are people using them
to gamble? That seems like an obvious use case.
DANNY 9:28
So these prediction markets
don't actually use real money. That's important
to say. You're not actually going on and placing
a real bet- although that would probably increase
the accuracy of some of these questions because
if you're actually using real money, maybe people
are more incentivized to really think through the
question. People do rely on the prediction markets
for making their own decisions. People do use the
wisdom of the crowd to actually incorporate into
their life when considering different things,
whether it's to take on this major in
college; like, people who are entering
college right now are trying to understand,
[Okay, if I go into this field of medicine,
will it just be completely automated by AI in two
years?] So I think there are people who really,
take information from these prediction markets
and use it practically. As far as betting goes,
there's lots of questions on sports on these
platforms. I wouldn't be surprised if people
do use them to make sports bets but I would be
surprised if anyone has used them successfully
to make money. I think that's because, when
you think about the things that we can bet on,
like sports events or maybe elections, these
things are extremely hard to predict and very
chaotic. So even if you get a more accurate
probability from the crowd, which you will,
there's just a level of noise that you
can't really beat, which still allows
basically the house to win almost every time.
So that's the current state, to answer that.
CRAIG 11:20
Yeah, but
what's the reliability or the
success rate of these platforms?
DANNY 11:29
Oh, right. So up
until 2022– so I can give you some stats on
some of these platforms. So an earlier paper
by Andy Zhao and colleagues looked at three
platforms, Meticulous, Good Judgment Open,
and CSET Foretell, which are three prediction
markets. Across all questions, the crowd got,
I believe, an accuracy of 92%. But, if you look
at the same exact platforms in the last two years,
which is what we studied, their accuracy falls to
77%. This isn't to say that they're getting worse,
this is just to say that the types of questions
that they're forecasting are getting more and
more difficult. Maybe one thing that's helpful
as a statistic is, these prediction markets,
if you were to compare them, let's say you were
to do a competition with individual forecasters
that really have a lot of experience, are very
smart, and are have known to be accurate- these
prediction markets, on average, tend to be
even better than them. So the accuracy will
completely just depend on the difficulty of the
questions you're considering. But as far as,
[How powerful are these markets?] I would
say that they're quite strong and I think
that they will only continue to get more
strong as you get increased participation.
CRAIG 13:07
Yeah, before, again, we go into
your paper and your system, just aggregating the
predictions of the prediction market seems that it
would be one step towards a stronger prediction.
If you have, I don't know how many there are,
5 or 10 markets, probably the questions are
phrased slightly differently and that would create
some noise. Can you boost the predictions simply
by aggregating the prediction markets themselves?
DANNY 13:46
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, sort
of one of the key takeaways from the forecasting
literature is, the more sources of information
you have, the more signals you have, the better
your forecast is. So there is there are actually
currently platforms- I can't remember the name of
the one I'm thinking of, but there is a current
platform that simply aggregates that prediction
from all the prediction markets for a particular
question. So this is done in practice. And I think
one thing that you pointed out is you have to be
careful because the questions might have different
wordings on different platforms, which would
create different probabilities for the event. Or,
they might have different resolution criteria. So
two platforms will have the same question but
maybe one platform will say, this will resolve
as ‘Yes’ under this criteria. Then, another
platform will say, this will resolve is yes under
this criteria. For example, let's say the question
is, will the Starship launch be successful? People
have different criteria for what successful is and
one platform, might outline certain criteria for
successful launch and the other one will have
different criteria. So yeah, you just have to
be careful with respect to that but overall this
would be a very intuitive and natural thing to do.
CRAIG 15:08
Yeah,
let's talk about what you have been
doing with large foundation models.
DANNY 15:17
Cool. Yeah,
recently our group at UC Berkeley, with
Fred Zahn, Yuhan Chen, and Jacob Steinhardt,
we released a paper showing that an end-to-end
language model system can forecast future events
almost at the level of human crowd aggregates,
almost at the level of these prediction markets.
In some specific settings, they're actually
better than the prediction markets. So yeah,
we could start with the dataset collection and
I could tell you about what the task is, the
motivation for it, and why we set it up this way.
Then I could tell you how our system performs.
CRAIG 16:00
Yeah.
DANNY 16:01
So on the data collection front,
there's all these prediction markets in the
wild. Most of them have API's or it's easy
to scrape the data online, and they allow you
to do this. You could scrape the questions,
you can scrape what the crowd thinks at different
dates. The crowd prediction is constantly changing
over time as new information is accrued. It's not
like there's a question they asked the crowd once
and they use that as a probability. They ask the
crowd across questions, open date and close date.
So the question might be open for six months
or something and the crowd prediction changes;
so you can get all this data. Given that you have
these questions and this data, you can ask an
AI system like language model what it thinks the
probability of this event happening is and you can
compare it to what the crowd thinks. Eventually,
at some point the question is resolved,
the outcome happens. And you can sort of compute
the accuracy across many different questions over
time and see how accurate your system is. So
this is the setup. We thought that language
models would be a really good place to start
with getting superhuman machine forecasting.
We thought language models was a good place to
start for a couple different reasons. The first
is that for human forecasting, typically expert
forecasters or people who do this as a profession,
forecast in specific domains. So if you want
really good forecasts about the environment,
there are certain people who are really good
at this. But this limits you because you have
to rely on experts and some questions call upon
introduce interdisciplinary thinking, which isn't
always trivial to think about. So language models
are trained on web-scale data. So they're endowed
with mass cross-domain knowledge so they don't
succumb to this limitation. Furthermore, they can
parse and produce texts extremely rapidly. They're
timely, you can invoke them at any point in time
during the day or at any point in time during your
decision process. Lastly, they can be trained in a
way that humans can't. Language models as they
currently stand are trained on some very large
data set and then deployed and then used. But once
they're deployed, they're not getting updated or
retrained with recent knowledge. I think good
evidence for this is if you go to ChatGPT, you
ask it who won the last NBA Finals; it won't be
able to tell you because it was trained up until
2021. Once it was released, it wasn't trained
again. So why is this useful and interesting?
It is because I can ask a language model about
events that have already been resolved or have
already happened and see what its prediction
is and compare that to the crowd prediction.
In addition, if I let it look at information
that was only available up until some date,
I can sort of simulate forecasting. So today,
if I were to forecast the state of the election,
who I think is going to win the US election,
I'd go online and I have information available
up until today, March 8, and tomorrow I’d have
information available up until March 9. So you
could retroactively go to these models and just
give them information up to some date and then
have them make a prediction. This will effectively
be like, what would this model have said if it was
really forecasting on this date? So you can set
up this method of evaluation and method to train
these models on information that has already been
resolved in a way that's automatic and effective.
One method you could even consider is having a
language model that was deployed with data up
until 2023 to sort of teach and guide a model that
was trained only up until 2021. The point here is
that the 2023 model would have so much information
about things that have happened that it could have
the earlier language model make predictions,
it could help you correct its predictions, and
it could help it learn where its mistakes are, how
it could have made a better prediction and improve
accordingly. So you can have this completely
automatic training between two systems where
there's literally no human involved. So we thought
that this would make language models a really good
place to start for forecasting. Interestingly,
this idea has been proposed and tried in the
past. We're not the first people to come up with
this idea or try it. In a study that was released
in 2022 by Andy Zhao and his collaborators showed
that their system achieved an accuracy around 65%,
whereas the crowd accuracy was 92%. So their
system was a lot worse than the crowd. But
as language models have become more capable over
the past two years, we thought to try this again,
potentially sourcing even better information and
training this system in more advanced ways. What
we observe is that the model has gotten more
accurate. Our accuracy was 71% versus the crowd
accuracy of 77%. What we hope to show here is
that language models are a good place to train
machines to forecast. We believe this gap will
only become more narrow over time and eventually
machines will become better. If this is the case,
we hope that this technology is distributed across
organizations and people so that they can
use it to make more informed decisions.
CRAIG 22:31
Yeah, and the data-
let's say you want to predict a sports team, not
that I'm particularly interested in gambling,
but you have the Super Bowl and there's– are
you relying on the information encoded in the
weights of the models? Or are you supplying the
models with reams of data on individual players,
on historical outcomes? What kind of data are
you providing and how do you collect that data?
DANNY 23:17
Yeah, great question. I'll
answer that question and then also talk a little
bit about how our system was trained since that'll
give insight on what sort of data the model is
privy to. So at test time, when we're actually
having the model make forecasts, what we do is
we give it access to essentially the internet;
up until some date, of course, because we
don't want it to have information after a
date. And what it has access to is– what we let
the system do is decide what it wants to search
on the internet. For forecasting let's say
the Super Bowl, the system will say, [Okay,
I want to see what experts are saying. I want
to see who's currently injured. I want to see
what the weather is going to be like for
the game.] So the system itself will come
up with everything that it wants, what types
of information it'll want to see. Then we go
and grab that information. Then the system
looks through, let's say 300 articles and
it determines which ones are relevant and which
ones are irrelevant. So when you go try to look
at the answer to a question on Google, you might
have to look through a few articles before you
actually get the answer to your question.
The system does the same thing. We grab a
bunch of articles and we decide which ones are
most relevant to the questions it was asking.
CRAIG 24:35
Let me just stop you; when
you say grab the articles, are you talking
about physically downloading content and then
uploading it to the model? Are you talking about
copying URLs into the model? How does that happen?
DANNY 24:54
Yeah, so we grabbed
the content of the article, and the way we
do this is we use news API's. So there's a
bunch of news API's out there. Google News is
one we use. Another one, there's this startup
called NewsCatcher which we think sources
excellent information; I expect them to do
very well. And they provide the body content of
an article. So we load this into a data structure,
all the content in each individual article. Then
we have the model go through each article and
look through the article end to end and see if
the information is relevant. This is step one.
CRAIG 25:33
And let me stop you
there. Are you putting the content into a vector
database? Or, are you uploading PDFs to the model?
DANNY 25:49
So we're feeding it into its
context. So just how you go on some web app and
prompt a language model, a way that we typically
do as just common users; this is exactly how
it's being done. We're not embedding the article
in a special way or encoding it in a special
way. We're just giving the plain text to the
model within its context and then asking it some
questions like, [Do you think this is relevant
given what you wanted to
know?] Does that make sense?
CRAIG 26:20
Yeah
DANNY 26:21
Cool. Once the system determines which articles it
finds relevant, the next step is to summarize this
information. Why do we summarize this information?
It's kind of for the reason you just said;
so we're giving this information to the model
within its context window, which might be 16,000
tokens or 32,000 tokens. We have a limited space
to work with. So we take like the 30 most relevant
articles and we summarize them to condense the
information. Then we give it to a final language
model and say, [Okay, these are all the retrieved
articles based off the questions that you ask,
based off what you found was relevant. Finally,
apply these forecasting methods to make a
forecast.] These forecasting methods could be
like, what do you think the reliability of each
information is? For each piece of information,
how much weight do you put on this for affecting
the outcome? And, what is the historical base rate
of this event happening? That's another thing you
might consider. So it just applies all these tools
from forecasting and then makes a prediction.
So that's how the system works in deployment.
CRAIG 27:35
I've been talking
to a journalist researcher and a data
scientist about doing something similar,
gathering information around a news event and
seeing if a large language model or an ensemble
of models could determine the probability of
truth of any particular narrative around that
event. The point is that there are narratives
that are not adopted by the dominant narrative,
there are sub narratives that are excluded. You
can think of a million examples in a conflict;
there's eyewitness accounts on Twitter/social
media that don't necessarily get picked up because
they're considered too anecdotal or too biased
or whatever. In the same way, in this prediction,
as you add data, presumably the prediction
will change. If you're using the news sources,
that's one source of information; but if you use
something noisier like Twitter or– I don't know,
I’m not young enough to be using social media
that much, but whatever platform is active on a
question, you may get a different prediction.
So have you guys taken that into account?
DANNY 29:46
I think thinking about
what sources of information tend to provide more
reliable data is very important for forecasting.
We let the language models sort of learn on it’s
own what information it finds to be effective to
rely on. One interesting thing is, one way
you can measure the truthfulness of data
is how well it can be used to predict future
events, for example. So if you find that all
the information you source from a certain news
outlet is always really helpful for improving
the accuracy of your predictions, this is
a good proxy for the truth of information.
CRAIG 30:28
Yeah.
DANNY 30:28
One follow-up
that I've gotten from people along the
same lines of what you just said is
using this for epistemic. So one thing you
could ask is, given this language model,
I can source information from all these articles
and sort of reason about this information;
how many people's minds can be changed using this
language model? I get this language model to like
1000 people, asking them some controversial
question and the language model can pull
information from different news sources. One
question you could ask is, how many people's
minds can I change on a certain topic? As far
as measuring the truthfulness of information,
I think forecasting is a good starting point for
this because if you rely on information that's
always leading you to make inaccurate forecasts
of future events, you could sort of determine
that it's not very accurate. During training of
our system, you could probably hypothesize that
the model did learn which sources to rely more
on and which sources not to rely more on. And
you don't have to train explicitly to do this.
It will implicitly learn to do this because it's
trained to make accurate predictions and better
information will give you accurate predictions.
CRAIG 31:53
Yeah. So you're relying solely
on generative models? I mean, this sounds like
a perfect use case for reinforcement learning.
DANNY 32:06
So I think reinforcement learning
has a lot of potential applications here to
make this model stronger. Currently, we're using
auto-regressive language models. So generative
models and we're having the models rely on their
pre-trained knowledge, anything it knows about,
the context or the specifics about the thing we're
asking about as well as pulled knowledge. But you
could, for example, let's say you had access to a
lot of humans; you could have the model generate
four forecasts for an event. It'll just generate
four different types of forecasts and you can have
a human who's maybe good at forecasting, rate each
forecast across different criteria, or you can
have even the model do this itself. Then you
could use some form of reinforcement learning to
reinforce the criteria that was most effective. We
think that our work is preliminary. And we imagine
that there is going to be a lot of work done in
this space after, sort of, the release of our
work. Forecasting is hard, predicting the future
is a very hard thing to do. So I don't think folks
have been bullish on AI being able to do this. But
I think giving the advancements and training
algorithms, which you alluded to, and just the
capabilities and the size of these models, I think
this will become very possible in the near future.
CRAIG 33:44
Yeah. Can
you just, at the 40,000-foot
level, give us the architecture?
DANNY 33:56
Definitely. So I'll
tell you the architecture at a high level and I'll
tell you at a high level how it was trained since
I think it's interesting. I sort of was talking
about this earlier but the first step, which is
really important in judgmental forecasting, is,
What are the different things you would need to
consider? If you're forecasting an election, it's
one thing to just look at what the polls say. But
there's a lot of different factors that go into
it, that make an accurate prediction. Maybe you
want to look at what the campaign finances
are, you want to look at recent scandals,
you want to look at the state of the economy, what
are different geopolitical events around the world
and what are these candidates thoughts on it.
So the first step is to get a model to be able
to really think about which considerations
are important. And this is all generative;
so you give the question and information
about the question to a model and you say,
[generate the sub-questions that you have.]
Then you take these sub-questions and you
just go to some news API like Google News or
NewsCatcher, which I said, and you look up
articles that hopefully have information about
the sub-questions. Then once you get articles,
there's going to be some articles that are just
not relevant based off noise in these API's and
the fact that these search engines are not
perfect. So you really want to get the best
information. Then you want to condense it into
the context window of a model. This has to be
done because models have a fixed context
window that you can't see past certainly.
CRAIG 35:37
So up till that point, is this all automated?
DANNY 35:42
Yes
CRAIG 35:43
So you put
in the question, the model makes the API
call, gets in, and it all comes in? Okay.
DANNY 35:51
Yeah. So it's completely automated,
its automated end to end. It takes a question
and every step that I just described is a step
that it does completely on its own. Then it gets
this large list of summarized articles with each
article potentially having information about each
sub-question. I think this on its own is a pretty
interesting tool. You can imagine if a journalist
is doing research on some topic or someone's
doing a literature review about some research
thing, having this is pretty helpful. So just
as a sidestep, there's other organizations
like the Forecasting Research Institute,
which have done some studies on using language
models to actually help human forecasters. They've
shown that by giving them access to these language
models, forecasters are much more accurate. They
don't even have to be used in isolation, I guess
is my point. To go back to the architecture; once
you have all the information, which is obviously
most of the piece of the forecasting problem, you
have to make considerations about the information
and then finally, a prediction. In our paper,
we focused on training a language model to make
accurate predictions given information. So the way
we did this is you take a lot of questions, a lot
of forecasting questions from these platforms and
you have the language model make predictions for
each one of these questions. For each prediction
it's going to give you a reasoning, basically the
reasoning will sort of describe its step-by-step
thinking and then this reasoning will lead to
some final probability. So it's going to be like,
let's say half a page of text where it gives
sort of a description of what it's thinking
about. And then at the end of the text, it's
going to have a number indicating what it
thinks the probability is of the event.
So you do this on a lot of questions,
then you take the questions where the
model predicted the event accurately,
and then you go back to the system and you train
it on these predictions because these are the
accurate ones. So you basically go back to it and
you say, [These are the accurate ones I want you
to learn to do, I want you to learn to do this
more often.] And you can just keep repeating
this process. So if you had access to a lot of
compute, which we didn't, and a lot of data,
you can imagine just doing this repeatedly and
getting something that's very, very strong.
CRAIG 38:31
Okay. So it spits out at the end,
a probability. Then you go back and if you're
doing this with a cut-off date of- February 29
and the event resolves on the first of March,
you could run the prediction on the model based
on information up until February 29, have a
prediction, and then see on the first whether
or not that prediction was accurate. You were
saying earlier, I think 71% compared to the
prediction market’s 77%, where have you gotten and
with the level of compute that you have available?
DANNY 39:37
Yeah. What you
described is I think a really good summary of our
process. We wait till the question resolves and if
the model made an accurate prediction, which
basically means it gave a reasoning that was
effective at predicting the event, we collect
this reasoning and then we train the model on
these reasonings because we found them to be
effective for making correct predictions. As
far as where our performance stands; one thing I
will say about our system that I haven't said yet
is that it's very good at forecasting events that
are more uncertain. We found that it's actually
better than the prediction market. So if you take
questions where the prediction markets put the
probability between .3 and .7, somewhere in
that interval, it could be .4, it could be .6,
5, but somewhere in the interval, .3 and
.7; if you just look at those questions,
our system forecasts them at a level better
than the crowd aggregate. The reason why this is
probably happening is because– so the model that
we train, which is GPT-4, was trained using our
RLHF, which basically made it so that it doesn't
output predictions that are extremely confident.
So the model is hedging, even when the evidence
is extremely clear. So let's say the crowd puts a
probability of it raining tomorrow at 95%, I don't
know; the model won't want to tell you 95% or 96%
because it doesn't want to give you probabilities
that are extremely certain because it doesn't want
to be wrong and then be punished, punished
for that or something. But for these events,
where the probability is more uncertain between
.3 and .7, you just look at these questions,
our accuracy is better than better than the
crowd accuracy. Then on all the questions,
yeah, we got 71%. The overall performance
is 77%. That gap is certainly smaller than
the previous gap of 65% versus 92% but I think
there's still some ways to go. I think getting
to the point that we did is easier than getting
to the next point which is at the level of human
forecasters or even better. I think this
is going to be increasingly challenging
and it's going to require better information,
more compute, and potentially better models.
CRAIG 42:17
Yeah. And just on that,
on doing better on highly uncertain questions,
that could also just reflect how poor the
human forecasters are on those questions right?
DANNY 42:31
That's true.
CRAIG 42:34
I mean, because I don't know what the percentage
accuracy you would have on that kind of a question
but if the crowd was between– what did you say?
DANNY 42:52
.3 and .7
CRAIG 42:54
.3 and .7 and the
model beats the crowd and it's .4, youre still
a long way from having a useful prediction.
DANNY 43:05
That is true. I
think that's a fair point. I would say that
my intuition is that it's not necessarily
the case that the crowd is not as good at
forecasting these questions; I think these
are just questions with higher uncertainty. So
if you're trying to predict the last Super Bowl,
it's going to be somewhere within that interval.
You're not going to say, 49ers- 95%. This would be
a bad prediction. But it is to say that with
these marginal differences in probability,
our system is reporting something that is a bit
more accurate, on average, since we're considering
over 1000 questions and over 3000 forecasts,
etc. So it's not purely just noise I would say.
CRAIG 43:52
Yeah. Let me ask you something about just standard
supervised learning, which now
sounds like old-fashioned AI.
DANNY 44:06
Yeah.
CRAIG 43:52
A couple of years
ago I got to know a no-code company called
Akio, who I'm a great fan of. You can load
in your data- at that time, now they work
with less structured data, but, you know,
your tabular data. I used it as an experiment
for an article I wrote on horse racing. What
they were focused on was sorting lead generation
leads for sales teams. So you have 10,000 leads,
you don't know where to spend your time, you
can't call 10,000 people; so you train the
model based on past leads and as many columns of
attributes, or I guess you got on parameters, as
you can find on each lead for which you know the
ultimate outcome. Then the model learns to predict
relatively accurately which leads are likely to
convert to sales. Then when you get a bunch of
new leads in, you put it through the system, it
ranks them according to their probability. So I
was using horse racing data for which there is
a lot. I can't remember how many columns we had
but we would we loaded it all in and the last
column is– first of all, we trained it on past
races. Then we loaded all these columns in with–
it was a classification algorithm; is this gonna
win or not win, this horse? Then you would rank
the probabilities and it did an excellent job of
predicting race time odds. We would do this
a day before. That was pretty amazing. Every
now and then it would predict a win for a long
shot. I was betting, I think it was $2 bets,
on the top– I can't remember how I sorted, but to
see how I did and I did pretty well; except that
if you're betting on the favorites, the favorites
aren't always going to win so over time you lose
money. But if you bet only on the long shots,
because they paid so much more, you don't have
to hit many of those correctly to make money.
Then I lost my data source; I've always wanted
to go back to it. But something like that could
be another data point for your system, right?
DANNY 47:31
Definitely. I
think what you're alluding to is that there is
so many different places in life where there's
prediction involved. This means that there is
so much data. Let's just take horse racing;
this could have been part of the thing we
trained our model to do. And you can imagine
that if you get really good at predicting horse
racing, that probably gives you some skill on
predicting other sports events. Another use case
that’s sort of similar to what you just said is,
imagine you take every company that ever tried
to launch some product and you take the ones
that failed and the one that succeeded and you
train the model to classify whether it's going
to succeed or fail based on like every single
company that has ever tried to go public or do
something. And you could try asking the model
about a new idea with your business plan and
seeing what it thinks the probability of success
is. This is just another way to teach the model
how to forecast this type of event which I
imagine would allow it to gain skills that
are useful for other types of forecasting. This
is why I think that using AI and language models
in particular to learn how to forecast is– we're
in a current position to do this in a way that we
haven't been able to previously with the amount of
data and compute available. I think could really
revolutionize technology and how we humans even
make decisions and assess things across the board.
CRAIG 49:06
Yeah. So where do you go from
here? You're over 70% against the forecasting
platforms and superforecasters. Is that right?
What are you going to do with this? This is a
research project. Are you taking it further,
marshaling more compute, more data?
Adding reinforcement learning or a
supervised learning classifier is another
data point. What's the next step for you guys?
DANNY 49:44
Yeah. So my prediction
is that some large company, maybe OpenAI is– I'm
actually already familiar with a large company
that has contacted me that is really interested in
this work and want to put a lot of resources into
it. So I think there is going to be at least one
large company or organization that tries to push
this to the superhuman level. I think my main
hope is that this technology happens. I think
it has a positive consequence for the future.
If I didn't think that other people were going
to work on this I would probably do it myself.
That's where I think this project is headed.
CRAIG 50:35
Yeah. And how
these predictions could be used, if you had
a high degree of accuracy in predictions
you could modify behavior and there could
be sort of a self-reinforcing loop there.
DANNY 50:58
Exactly. I think
there's some equilibrium that you'll find
once everyone has perfect information.